docs: Add cloudwatch monitoring guide (#3172)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch.mdx

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/create-aws-account.png" alt="Create an AWS Account" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

When you have provided your details, verified your email, and completed the account creation process, you will need to set up permissions for the CloudWatch agent to access AWS resources and communicate with Amazon EC2 and AWS Systems Manager. You will need to create an IAM role for the CloudWatch agent on an Amazon EC2 instance, and an IAM user for the CloudWatch agent on an on-premises server.

### Create An IAM Role For The CloudWatch Agent On An EC2 Instance

First create an IAM role to use the CloudWatch agent on Amazon EC2.

In your AWS console, navigate to <Breadcrumb>Services -> IAM -> Roles</Breadcrumb>.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/navigate-iam-roles.png" alt="Create an AWS Role" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

Click the <InlineUIElement>Create role</InlineUIElement> button in the top left.  

- On the "Select trusted entity" step 1, choose "AWS service" on the "Trusted entity type".

> - Under "Use case", choose "EC2",and then click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Under "Use case", choose "EC2", and then click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.
```

> - In the list of policies, select the checkbox next to `CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy`. If necessary, use the search box to find the policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the list of policies, select the checkbox next to `CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy`. If necessary use the search box to find the policy.
```

- To use Systems Manager to install or configure the CloudWatch agent, select the checkbox next to `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore`. This AWS-managed policy enables an instance to use the Systems Manager service core functionality. If necessary, use the search box to find the policy. This policy isn't required if you start and configure the agent only through the command line.  Click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.

> - Enter the name `CloudWatchAgentServerRole` and a description, and click on <InlineUIElement>Create role</InlineUIElement>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enter the name `CloudWatchAgentServerRole` and a description, and click <InlineUIElement>Create role</InlineUIElement>.
```

Now create the IAM user necessary for the CloudWatch agent to write data to CloudWatch.

In your AWS console, navigate to <Breadcrumb>Services -> IAM -> Users</Breadcrumb>.

Click the <InlineUIElement>Create user</InlineUIElement> button in the top left. 

- Enter `CloudWatchAgentUser` as the name and click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.
- For permissions, choose "Attach policies directly".
- In the list of policies, select the checkbox next to `CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy`, `CloudWatchFullAccess`, and `CloudWatchFullAccessV2`. If necessary, use the search box to find the policies.
- To use Systems Manager to install or configure the CloudWatch agent, select the box next to `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore`. This AWS-managed policy enables an instance to use the Systems Manager service core functionality. If necessary, use the search box to find the policy. This policy isn't required if you start and configure the agent only through the command line. 
- Click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement> and then <InlineUIElement>Create user</InlineUIElement>.

Add a `PutRetentionPolicy` to the CloudWatch agent user.

> - On the Users overview page, click on the `CloudWatchAgentUser` name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the Users overview page, click the `CloudWatchAgentUser` name.
```

- Click the <InlineUIElement>Add permissions</InlineUIElement> dropdown and choose <InlineUIElement>Create inline policy</InlineUIElement>.
- On the next screen, choose <InlineUIElement>JSON</InlineUIElement> on the "Policy editor" and replace the JSON with the code below.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "logs:PutRetentionPolicy",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

- Click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.
- Give the policy a name and click <InlineUIElement>Create policy</InlineUIElement>.

Generate an access key for the CloudWatch agent user. 

> - Click on <InlineUIElement>Create access key</InlineUIElement> on the `CloudWatchAgentUser` overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click <InlineUIElement>Create access key</InlineUIElement> on the `CloudWatchAgentUser` overview page.
```

- Select "Application running outside AWS" and click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.
- Click <InlineUIElement>Create access key</InlineUIElement>.

The access keys will look something like this:

<Aside type='note'>
In this guide, use your actual AWS credential values instead of `your_key_id` and `your_access_key` wherever these placeholder texts occur.
</Aside>

```sh
aws_access_key_id = your_key_id
aws_secret_access_key = your_access_key
```

Save the access and secret access keys to use later.

## Set Up A Collector To Receive Data From FusionAuth

Now you will build a FusionAuth Docker image that has the CloudWatch agent installed.

<Aside type='note'>

> In this section, you will need the region your AWS account uses. Get your region from the address bar when logged in to AWS. For example, this guide uses the `eu-north-` region, as found in the address: `https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/console/home?region=eu-north-1`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will need the region your AWS account uses. Get your region from the address bar when logged in to AWS. For example, this guide uses the `eu-north-` region, as found in the URL: `https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/console/home?region=eu-north-1`. 
```

In the AWS UI, navigate to <Breadcrumb>Services -> CloudWatch -> Dashboards</Breadcrumb>.

Click <InlineUIElement>Create dashboard</InlineUIElement>. Give the dashboard a <InlineField>Name</InlineField>, for example, `FusionAuthDashboard`, and click <InlineUIElement>Create dashboard</InlineUIElement>.

On the next screen, you have a few options to choose from to configure the dashboard Widget:

- For <InlineField>Data source types</InlineField>, choose `CloudWatch`.
- For <InlineField>Data type</InlineField>, choose `Metrics`.
- For <InlineField>Widget type</InlineField>, choose `Line`.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/select-dashboard-options.png" alt="Select Options For The Dashboards" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

Click <InlineUIElement>Next</InlineUIElement>.

Now you can add metrics to the widget and configure some options. Give your graph a title and choose "1h" for the time preference. You can also set the refresh interval from the dropdown on the far right.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/add-metrics-dashboard.png" alt="Add Metrics To The Dashboards" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

> Click on the `FusionAuth` namespace, then click on <InlineField>CPU</InlineField>. Select all the CPU options and click <InlineUIElement>Create widget</InlineUIElement>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the `FusionAuth` namespace, then click <InlineField>CPU</InlineField>. Select all the CPU options and click <InlineUIElement>Create widget</InlineUIElement>.
```

## FusionAuth Metrics

FusionAuth offers a wide range of [metrics](/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/monitor#metrics), which are detailed in the documentation. It's up to you to determine which metrics are important for your monitoring needs.

## Mapping FusionAuth Metrics To AWS CloudWatch Metrics

CloudWatch gives you actionable insights that help you optimize application performance, manage resource utilization, and understand system-wide operational health. CloudWatch provides up to one-second visibility of metrics and logs data, and the ability to perform calculations on metrics. CloudWatch collects, aggregates, and summarizes compute utilization information such as CPU, memory, disk, and network data, as well as diagnostic information such as container restart failures.

The CloudWatch agent supports the counter, gauge, and summary metric types, and also handles the sum and count of a summary metric in the same way as it handles counter metrics.

Note that you can write custom services to send available data to AWS CloudWatch through FusionAuth API endpoints using the AWS API and Watchtower libraries. 

## Write A Custom Service To Send Data To The API

> The Python application below exports login records every 60 seconds and sends them to CloudWatch in AWS. This script is for demo purposes. In real-world scenarios, records would more likely be sent every 60 minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Python application below exports login records every 60 seconds and sends them to CloudWatch in AWS. This script is for demonstration purposes; in real-world scenarios, records are more likely to be sent every 60 minutes.
```

Click <InlineUIElement>Create widget</InlineUIElement> in the top-right corner and click <InlineUIElement>Save</InlineUIElement> to save the dashboard.

You should see your logger info being reflected.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/cloudwatch-dashboard-custom-logger.png" alt="Custom Logger Dashboard Table" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

You can set up widgets for other endpoints and metrics similarly.

## Monitoring FusionAuth In An AWS EC2 Instance

Navigate to the EC2 dashboard in the AWS console  <Breadcrumb>Services -> EC2</Breadcrumb>.

To create a virtual server, click <InlineUIElement>Launch new instance</InlineUIElement>. Give the server a <InlineUIElement>Name</InlineUIElement> and select "Amazon Linux" as the operating system. You can use the default "Architecture". For the instance type, select `t3.medium`, which is the lowest memory allocation that FusionAuth Docker will successfully start on.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/create-ecs-instance-settings-1.png" alt="Create EC2 Instance-1" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

> Next, generate a key pair to access the server via SSH. Click <InlineUIElement>Create new key pair</InlineUIElement>. Enter a name for the keypair, choose "RSA" as the keypair type, and `.pem` as the file format. Click on <InlineUIElement>Create key pair</InlineUIElement>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, generate a key pair to access the server via SSH. Click <InlineUIElement>Create new key pair</InlineUIElement>. Enter a name for the keypair, choose "RSA" as the keypair type, and `.pem` as the file format. Click <InlineUIElement>Create key pair</InlineUIElement>.
```

 
<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/create-key-pair.png" alt="Create Key Pair" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

The `.pem` file will be downloaded to your downloads folder. Copy the `.pem` file to your working directory so that you can use it to SSH to the server later.

Return to the launch instance dialog in AWS and make sure the key pair you created is selected in the key pair name dropdown list. 

We'll use the default network configuration and security setting for this guide. In production, you would configure and secure the network settings for your environment here.

Click <InlineUIElement>Launch instance</InlineUIElement> to create your virtual server.

<img src="/img/docs/operate/secure-and-monitor/cloudwatch/create-ec2-success.png" alt="Create EC2 Success" role="bottom-cropped" width="1200" />

> Navigate to the EC2 instance overview screen and click on the newly created instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the EC2 instance overview screen and click the newly created instance.
```
